ANVIL LOSSLESS DATA COMPRESSION ALGORITHM

Anvil is a data compression algorithm that incorporates the Huffman and LZ77 algorithms.

When applying the Anvil algorithm, the file is first compressed with the LZ77 algorithm, and then the compressed file is compressed again with the Huffman algorithm. When the file is decoded, the reverse of the operations is applied. The file, first decoded with the Huffman algorithm, is then decoded again with the LZ77 algorithm, and the original file is obtained losslessly.

While compressing the file with the LZ77 algorithm, each character is looked at in order. If the current character and the following characters match some of the previous characters, the longest of the matching previous character groups is written to the file as "distance / length", followed by the next character. If the current character (group) has not been repeated before, the distance and length values are written to the file as "0 / 0". After the operation, a new compressed file consisting of "length / distance / next character" triplets emerges.

While compressing the file with the Huffman algorithm, the number of each character in the file is counted, and a Huffman tree is built with the resulting values. Thanks to the constructed tree, characters with a higher count are represented by fewer bits, and characters with a lower count are represented by more bits, and each character is encoded according to a variable number of bits. In the Anvil data compression algorithm, when encoding the file, the numbers are first normalized to the [0 - 256] value range according to the highest character count in the file to ensure that the character counts fit into 1 byte. Then, the character counts are written to the beginning of the file in the form of "count / character" pairs. After writing the character counts, a single "0" is written as a termination mark. It should be noted here that "0" is not written as a "character count" other than the termination mark. After the character counts and the termination mark "0" are written to the file, the bits corresponding to the characters are written in order. However, since operating systems do not allow bit-level operations on files, there may be unused bits in the last written byte. To enable the decoder to understand which of these bits represent a character, the number of bits used in the last byte is written to the end of the file after all characters have been written. Thus, the decoder does not try to make sense of the unused bits. When decoding the file, a new Huffman tree is built by reading the characters and character counts, and the bits are converted back to characters with the constructed tree.
